Intro to Substrate MOOC - Module 3 (#97)
w3f/w3f-education: docs/Substrate/section3/install-deps.md

title: Install, configure, and run the Node Template
sidebar_label: Install, configure, and run the Node Template
description: Install the substrate-node-template, which will jump-start the development process!
---

It’s time to download the Substrate Node Template.  This repository will give us everything to run, test, and create a custom FRAME-based pallet.

> As a part of this course, a pre-configured pallet and node runtime are already provided for you, which you may find here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a part of this course, a pre-configured pallet and node runtime are already provided for you, which you will find here.
```

## Cloning & Building

> You should already have the Rust toolset installed on your system.  If not, go ahead and follow those, then come back here.  Remember, this may take a bit to build and run, so feel free to get a cup of coffee or read an awesome Medium article while you wait.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should already have the Rust toolset installed on your system.  If not, go ahead and follow the [instructions to install](https://docs.substrate.io/install/) and come back to this section.  Remember, this may take a bit to build and run, so feel free to get a cup of coffee or read an awesome Medium article while you wait.
```

Remember that this repo is a clone from the original substrate-node-template, but with a few tweaks to make it easier to work with when we start our pallet development.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/w3f/substrate-mooc-node
cd substrate-mooc-node/
# This will build and launch the node
# If you wish to just build it, then run cargo build --release
cargo run --release -- --dev
```

> Once built, we have multiple ways of interacting and running with our node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once built, we have multiple ways of running and interacting with our node.
```
